###AWS INTERVIEW###

Write down the jenkins file ?
Jenkins 
Multi stages 
Stage 1:
Pull code from scm
Stage2:
App server jenkins server 

We will follow agile model we deploy for every 2 weeks..??

We contaneriz the app 
We have standard templates based on the artifacts and tags we update the templatesss
Explain docker file
Difference b/w cmd and entry point
Diff b/w. Cmd and entry point?


We created few resources manually through console but now we want to create them through terraform what should we do???
We should go to every resource manually and build a state file and a configuration file 

How to connect to Ec2 instance without a public ip??
How you are managing your infrastructure ??
Candidate:- baston host (connecting through putty)

Difference b/w CI and CD?
For example we have a source code and developer is still making changes to the code so to add this to the existing code and check the results with new code and trigger build file..

CD :
After the build is successful to deploy the packages in to the servers continously we call it as CD

CI PART:
Scm>>>build to jar file>>build docker image>>push to docker registery 
CD part:
Pull image from docker registery>>write kubernetes manifest filesss like pod,deployemenr,replicaset,pv and pvc ,namespaces

What is difference between static volume provisioning and dynamic volume provisioning?

In static we create the persistant volumes manually by giving all the values like storage class and all and we check if it available or not
But in the dynamic we need not create manually volumes are created automatically 


Flow of kubernetes??
It flows master and worker node architecture 
Whenever end user sends request api server recieves it and stores the information in the etcd 
With the help of this the scheduler and controller will deploy the pods on the nodes based on their availability 
In the worker node we have a kubelet this is a primary node inbetween the master and worker node 

What is the dif b/w selfmanaged kubernetes and normal?
In self managed we should manage both master and worker where as normal k8s like EKS the master node will be managed by AWS

What are different deployement strategies?
Recreate and rolling update

In  rolling update when a new version of app is created it will not immediately deployed in the prod in place of older version it will first handled but UAT team after they signoff new version will be deployed
In. Recreate when a new version is created immediately older one will be deleted and new one will be created
Blue green deployment:
Green is the existing environment and blue is the newer version when 

Liveness and readiness probe??
When we are sending request to a node if the pod and node are helthy and they are ready to serve the request then it is said to be liveness readiness
Some pod is not ready and had some problem then automatically the pod will restart and become ready

What is deamon set??

When we want to check some app logs and all we use it

What is ingress controller?
Basically it is a internal load balancer when there are multiple apps hosted in the clusterr
